In Java the java.util.Collection and java.util.maps are two main root main interfaces for java collection classes

Before (JDK 1.2) java had vectors, hash tables and Arrays which has varied implementation and harder to master and apply for developers


The Iterable Interface has the iterator() method
  [
  [
This is extended by the collection's interface which defined common methods like add(), remove(), clear()
  [
  [
The collection's interface is extended by the list/Queue/Set interface

Classes that implement the list's (useful in ordering elements and also allows duplicate elements) Interface are
    -> ArrayList
    -> LinkedList
    -> Vector

-> Stack <-> class implements the LIFO (last-in-first-out) data structure.
    It supports core operations like push() and pop(), along with peek(), empty(), and search().
    Stack is a subclass of Vector and inherits its properties.

    Example of Stack - Clothes stacked in a clothing store (Given each of them are of the same size and design)
     the last one added is the first one to be sold !

    Note: Stack is a subclass of Vector and a legacy class.
    It is thread-safe which might be overhead in an environment where thread safety is not needed.
    An alternate to Stack is to use ArrayDequeue which is not thread-safe and has faster array implementation.



Queue Interface // The Queue interface follows the FIFO (First-In, First-Out) principle, where elements are processed in the order they are added
        similar to a real-world queue
        Example - Any fast food chain where the first customer is served first

    Classes that implement this
    -> Priority Queue // The most frequently used implementation of the queue interface is the PriorityQueue.

    Deque --> Deque Interface Extends Queue and implements LinkedList
    allows insertion and removal of elements from both ends
    // The class which implements the deque interface is ArrayDeque


SETS Interface represents an unordered collection that stores only unique elements (no duplicates)
    Classes that implements this are
    -> HashSet -> class implements a hash table and stores elements based on their hash codes.
    It does not guarantee insertion order and allows one null element.

    -> LinkedHashSet - Stores Hash table items in insertion order
    -> TreeSet - implements self balancing binary tree (Red Black Tree) (SORTED elements)


MAP VS SET
Set is a collection of keys VS Map is a collection of key,value pairs
EX: emoplyee_id's in the engeering_dept   VS    Employee id,employee name


Collections(CLASS) IS NOT THE SAME AS Collection(INTERFACE, root of all the interfaces and classes in the collection heirarchy)
The Collections class is a utility class in java.util that provides various static methods to operate on collection.

Some Methods:

sort(List): Sorts a list.
reverse(List): Reverses a list.
shuffle(List): Randomly shuffles elements.
binarySearch(List, key): Searches an element using binary search.
max()
min()